Implementation Plan: PARIVESH 3.0 Next-Gen Workflow System
1. Goal Description
The objective is to design and develop PARIVESH 3.0, a robust, role-based web portal that facilitates the end-to-end lifecycle of environmental clearance applications. It improves transparency and efficiency without clashing with the existing PARIVESH 2.0 informational features. The system handles applications linearly from initial filing by a Project Proponent (PP) to the publication of the final Minutes of the Meeting (MoM) using strict Role-Based Access Control (RBAC).

2. Technology Stack Recommendations
To ensure a modern, secure, and highly responsive application that meets the evaluation criteria, the following stack is recommended:

Frontend Framework: Next.js (React) for server-side rendering, SEO, and fast routing.
Styling: Tailwind CSS or Vanilla CSS adhering to a strict Corporate Blue/White palette for a clean, professional interface.
Backend Architecture: Node.js with Express.js (or Next.js API routes) to handle business logic and APIs.
Database: PostgreSQL (with Prisma ORM) or MongoDB. A relational database like PostgreSQL is highly recommended to easily enforce strict RBAC, relational tracking of workflows, and data isolation.
Authentication & Security: JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for secure, stateless role-based authentication.
Document Generation Engine:
docxtemplater or docx for generating Microsoft Word (.docx) files.
puppeteer or pdfkit for generating PDF documents from templates.
State Management: Redux Toolkit or Zustand for managing complex application states locally.
3. High-Level Architecture & RBAC Design
3.1 Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Matrix
The system relies on strong boundaries. API requests and UI routes must explicitly verify the user's role token before rendering or executing.

Role	Domain Access	Key Capabilities	Data Isolation Rules
Admin	admin.parivesh.in	Role assignment, provisioning master templates, managing sector parameters.	Has full administrative overview but cannot alter an applicant's submitted data.
PP / RQP	portal.parivesh.in	Profile management, App Filing, Multi-step forms, Document uploads, Payments.	Strict Isolation: Can only view, create, and edit their own applications.
Scrutiny Team	internal.parivesh.in	Verify documents, flag EDS, refer to meetings, trigger Auto-Gist.	Can only view applications submitted and assigned to their queue. Cannot alter final MoM.
MoM Team	secretariat.parivesh.in	Edit Auto-Generated Gists, convert to formal MoM, finalize and lock MoMs.	Can only act on applications successfully "Referred" by Scrutiny. Cannot alter PP's original docs.
4. Database Schema Design (Relational Approach)
1. Users Table: id, name, email, password_hash, role (Enum: ADMIN, PP, SCRUTINY, MOM), organization_details. 2. MasterTemplates Table (Admin controlled): id, category (A, B1, B2), sector_type, template_content (HTML/JSON representation of the document structure). 3. Applications Table:

id, pp_id (Foreign Key -> Users)
category, sector
status (Enum: Draft, Submitted, Under Scrutiny, EDS, Referred, MoM Generated, Finalized)
project_details (JSON payload of the multi-step form)
fee_status (Pending, Paid)
payment_reference_id 4. Documents Table: id, application_id, document_type, file_url, uploaded_by. 5. Meetings / MoM Table: id, application_id, gist_content (Pre-filled via auto-gist), final_mom_content, locked_status (Boolean). 6. Audit Log Table: Critical for tracking workflow history (Who changed the status and when).
5. End-to-End Workflow Implementation
Step 1: Registration and Filing (PP/RQP)
UI: A modern dashboard with a "New Application" wizard.
Process: The PP fills out project details across multiple steps (General, Location, Parameters, Documents).
Payment Sim: Integration of a mock UPI/QR gateway. Once the user clicks "Pay", an API validates the dummy transaction, updating fee_status to "Paid" and status to "Submitted".
Step 2: Verification and Scrutiny (Scrutiny Team)
UI: A Kanban-style or Table view showing incoming applications mapped to status === 'Submitted'.
Process: The reviewer checks the data.
EDS Path: If data is missing, the reviewer adds comments. The application status changes to EDS, notifying the PP to resubmit.
Approval Path: If data is valid, the reviewer categorizes it. The system automatically fetches the correct MasterTemplate based on category/sector.
Auto-Gist Generation: The backend script maps fields from project_details JSON directly into the template variables (e.g., {{project_name}}, {{investment_amount}}) and saves this text to the Meetings Table. Status updates to Referred.
Step 3: Meeting Documentation (MoM Team)
UI: A rich-text editor dashboard (e.g., Quill.js or Draft.js) pre-filled with the Auto-Gist.
Process: The MoM team reviews the gist and types in actual meeting discussions/decisions.
Finalization: Once complete, they click "Publish". The backend generates both PDF and DOCX files securely, saving them to a cloud bucket. The status locks to Finalized.
6. Technical Implementation Details & API Guidelines
6.1 Authentication Middleware
Create an authMiddleware that extracts the JWT. Create advanced role middlewares like requireRole('SCRUTINY') to protect specific endpoints.

javascript
// Example Route Protection
router.post('/flagEDS/:appId', requireRole('SCRUTINY'), flagEdsHandler);
6.2 Frontend Routing & Protected Layouts
Construct Next.js layouts for each domain/role. For instance, the MoM Team hits app/mom/dashboard. A layout wrapper verifies their role via an API call or JWT decoding before rendering the children components.

6.3 Auto-Gist Automation Logic
This is a critical evaluation criterion. Implement a robust templating substitution engine:

Fetch the application's project_details.
Fetch the assigned MasterTemplate.
Use a library like Handlebars (hbs) or write a regex parser to find placeholders in the template and replace them with the actual JSON keys from the PP's application.
6.4 Document Exporter (PDF & DOCX)
When the MoM clicks "Publish":

DOCX: Use docxtemplater to convert the HTML/Rich-Text output of the MoM Editor into a Word document.
PDF: Use puppeteer to load a hidden print-friendly React component containing the finalized MoM text, returning a PDF buffer to the user.
7. Next Steps & Development Sequencing
Phase 1 (Database & Auth): Initialize the Database schemas and build out the distinct JWT login portals for Admin, PP, Scrutiny, and MoM.
Phase 2 (PP Dashboard): Build the multi-step form and the mock UPI payment gateway.
Phase 3 (Scrutiny & Auto-Gist): Develop the verification dashboard, EDS flagging logic, and the crucial string-substitution engine for the Meeting Gist.
Phase 4 (MoM & Export): Integrate the rich text editor for the MoM team and build the backend PDF/DOCX exporters.
Phase 5 (Polish): Apply the Corporate Blue/White UI/UX guidelines and conduct end-to-end user testing.
